Unfortunately for us, the excellent Metahopper's Instantiate Object component (as its name implies), Instantiates a new object. It does not copy selected existing objects. So a GHPython component's code content is not copied by it.  Hence for us, this step must currently be currently manual, but is still fast and easy using Ctrl+C, Ctrl+V. 

Metahopper can rename components however.  The result of this is stored in ghenv.Component.NickName, and is available for the code to read.  We use this to rename all our skeleton GHPython launcher components.  To import the sDNA tool classes we need to, and to easily create a list of names we might as well, use another GHPython component.  Then in order for the launcher components to run a different function or inherit from a different class based on what their name is, they need to look up their name in this same list (or a copy of it, but that would require duplicating code).  So as any launcher components itself could then supply the list of all their names to Metahopper, that then renames the selected carbon copies of that same launcher component accordingly (using its Rename Object component), the build 'capability' (supply of names) is included in the launcher.  This adds only a small amount of extra code to the launcher, to what is already needed.  It does bloat the code of a separate dedicate builder, but that is a 'problem' that only affects Devs - a low price to pay for automating the build and avoiding code duplication.  This list for the sDNA_GH only support tool could be imported from a GH Param, but hard coding it in a dev tool seems mostly harmless.  If it is felt any of the default sDNA class names are too verbose, a dictionary of shorter nicknames is provided to allow a component to be renamed to anything unique and execute any of the associated functions in the list.  

When it has a name in its name list.  The Launcher component is designed to securely import the main sDNA_GH module from the sDNA_GH package by temporarily overriding sys.path (it is not apparent how to control the PYTHONPATH environment variable of a GHPython component).  The sDNA_GH package contains the rest of the Python code.

 <!-- TODO Ask Daniel Heumann if it's possible to alter a different variable of a GH Python component than its name, ideally via the same technique -->

<!-- Set data input and output variables to tree access?  sDNA can be an expensive operation for grasshopper.  If a series or sequence parameter is connected to a GHPython component input set to *Item Access* it will execute its contents once for each item in the series or sequence.  For a sDNA_GH launcher this could mean launching sDNA e.g. 10 times consecutively, which can be expensive and time consuming (until memoisation is implemented, and possibly then even so) and is most likely not what most non-advanced users will intend -->